1. **Preservation is important -** that can just be as simple as uploading the content to Google Drive. The other thing is being alert to signs of manipulation of content or coordinated spreading of disinformation.
2. **Archive and verify metadata -** there are some great tools that are already out there to use. A favourite one is called inVID and it lets you look into the metadata. You can check that metadata against other evidence to look for signs that it wasn't taken at the time that it said it was. You can also look for signs that the image was photoshopped and that's all available in this browser plug-in. The important thing about metadata is that it's auditable with a record of when it was uploaded and that sort of information to prove to the readers that you are showing the data that you claim to be showing. In terms of collecting larger amounts of information, Google Sheets is a really great tool for collaborating with multiple people.
3. **Validate data by cross-referencing -** validating data is one of the most important parts of any data-driven data collection story, and it really depends on the particular incident or type of data that you're looking at. When you're looking at this data, you can try to cross-reference the photos with others from the same area. You can try to search through images that were previously posted and make sure that it's not an old image being reposted. Then you can use completely different sources of data like satellite imagery.
4. **Protect your sources -** Balancing privacy and the data that you make available is really important. We need to be responsible in how we release information and make sure that no one's life is being put at risk.
5. **Fakes can be easily detectable -** we can have some image from the past presented as though it's a new and actual image. That can be discovered by reversed imagery. We also frequently see images that are just mis-described as something that they're not. Again, frequently you can prove this is not what it is claimed by finding other examples of the same type. These very simple misinformation techniques are 90% of what we see and, with a relatively small amount of these validation techniques like geolocation, and chronolocation (the sun's location or position in the sky) you can disprove it relatively easily. 
6. **Sourcing is not important if the verification is solid -** frequently, we don't trust the source of the images. But if you use the image itself as the source of truth, rather than the context around it, you can extract information from it that's useful for an investigation without having to trust where the image came from. If you can prove that it was taken at the time that it claims it was - or it wasn't - or if you can show that it was taken in the year that you're trying to look at and in the place, that you can cross-reference it with satellite imagery, you don't need to trust anything rather than the image itself. Of course, images can be Photoshopped or manipulated, but those are frequently detectable as well using forensic image analysis techniques by looking at how the "noise" in the image is distributed. When you take a photograph with a digital camera, the camera has some inherent noise property grain in the image and if you Photoshop that or alter it, it changes the grain of the image. That may not be visible directly with your eye, but by using forensic image analysis software, you can discover these modifications and have more evidence that an image, maybe even with geolocation, is or isn't trustworthy.
7. **Fight for truth -** There is a truth in most incidents that can be discovered and by revealing that truth you don't necessarily know that alone is going to hold someone accountable, but it is a necessary first step to establish accountability. That truth can be revealed through investigation, it can be revealed through data collection, or it can be revealed by teaching someone else methods that lets them discover a truth in their own local environment or their own reporting process. Seek accountability.