**Walking an Application**

-   View source: use your browser to view the human-readable source code of a website.
-   Inspector: learn how to inspect page elements and make changes to view usually blocked content.
-   Debugger: inspect and control the flow of a page’s JavaScript.
-   Network: see all the network requests a page makes.

**Exploring the website**

As a penetration tester, your role when reviewing a website or web application is to discover features that could potentially be vulnerable and attempt to exploit them to assess whether or not they are. These features are usually parts of the website that require some interactivity with the user.

Finding interactive portions of the website can be as easy as spotting a login form to manually reviewing the website’s JavaScript.

An excellent place to start is just with your browser exploring the website and noting down the individual pages/areas/features with a summary for each one.

**Viewing the page source**

The page source is the human-readable code returned to our browser/client from the web server each time we make a request.

The returned code is made up of html, css, and javascript, and it’s what tells our browser what content to display, how to show it and adds an element of interactivity with javascript.

Viewing the page source can help us discover more information about the web application.

You may discover some private area used by the business for storing company/staff/customer information.

Many websites these days aren’t made from scratch and use what’s called a framework. A framework is a collection of pre-made code that easily allows a developer to include common features that a website would require, such as blogs, user management, form processing, and much more, saving the developers hours or days of development.

Viewing the page source can often give us clues into whether a framework is in use and, if so, which framework and even what version. Knowing the framework and version can be a powerful find as there may be public vulnerabilities in the framework, and the website might not be using the most up to date version.

**Developer tools - Inspector**

The page source doesn’t always represent what’s shown on a webpage; this is because CSS, JavaScript and user interaction can change the content and style of the page, which means we need a way to view what’s been displayed in the browser window at this exact time. Element inspector assists us with this by providing us with a live representation of what is currently on the website. We can also edit and interact with the page elements, which is helpful for web developers to debug issues. Remember this is only edited on your browser window, and when you press refresh, everything will be back to normal.

**Developer tools - Debugger**

Intended for debugging javascript, and is an excellent feature for web developers wanting to work out why something might not be working. But as penetration testers, it gives us the option of digging deep into the javascript code. In Firefox and safari, this feature is called debugger, but in google chrome, it’s called Sources.

**Developer tools - Network**

Can be used to keep track of every external request a webpage makes. If you click on the Network tab and then refresh the page, you’ll see all the files the page is requesting.