**Brief**

SQLi is an attack on a web application database server that causes malicious queries to be executed. When a web application communicates with a database using input from a user that hasn’t been properly validated, there runs the potential of an attacker being able to steal, delete or alter private and customer data and also attack the web applications authentication methods to private or customer areas. This is why as well as SQLi being one of the oldest web application vulnerabilities, it also can be the most damaging.

**What is a Database?**

A database is a way of electronically storing collections of data in a organised manner. A database is controlled by a DBMS (Database Management System). DBMS’s fall into two camps: Relational (MySQL, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and SQLite) or Non-Relational.

Within a DBMS, you can have multiple databases, each containing its own set of related data. You’d store information separately in the database using something called Tables, the tables are identified with a unique name for each one.

**What are tables?**

A table is made up of columns and rows, a useful way to imagine a table is like a grid with the columns going across the top from left to right containing the name of the cell and the rows going from top to bottom with each one having the actual data.

-   **Columns:** each column, better referred to as a field has a unique name per table. When creating a column, you also set the type of data it will contain, common ones being integer (numbers), strings (standard text) or dates. Some databases can contain much more complex data, such as geospatial, which contains location information. Setting the data type also ensures that incorrect information isn’t stored. A column containing an integer can also have an auto-increment feature enabled; this gives each row of data a unique number that grows (increments) with each subsequent row, doing so creates what is called a Key field. A Key field has to be unique for every row of data which can be used to find that exact row in SQL queries.
-   **Rows:** rows or records are what contains the individual lines of data. When you add data to the table, a new rwo/record is created, and when you delete data, a row/record is removed.

**Relational Vs. Non-Relational databases**

A relational database stores informantion in tables and often the tables have shared information between them, they use columns to specify and define the data being stored and rows to actually store the data. The tables will often contain a column that has a unique ID (Primary Key) which will then be used in other tables to reference it and cause a relationship between the tables.

Non-relational databases sometimes called NoSQL, is any sort of database that doesn’t use tables, columns and rows to store the data, a specific database layout doesn’t need to be constructed so each row of data can contain different information which can give more flexibility over a relational database. Some popular databases of this type are MongoDB, Cassandra and ElasticSearch.

**What is SQL?**

SQL is a language used for querying databases, these SQL queries are better referred to as statements.

The simplest of the commands is used to retrieve (select), update, insert and delete data. It’s worth noting that SQL syntax is not case sensitive.

**SELECT -** query used to retrieve data from the database.

`**select * from users;**`

SELECT tells the database we want to retrieve some data, the * tells the database we want to receive back all columns from the table. “from users” tells the database we want to retrieve the data from the table named users. Finally, the semicolon at the end tells the database that this is the end of the query.

The next query is similar to the above, but this time, instead of using the * to return all columns in the database table, we are just requesting the username and password field.

**`select username,password from users;`**

Lastly, we’re going to utilise the where clause; this is how we can finely pick out the exact data we require by returning data that matches our specific clauses. This will only return the rows where the username is equal to admin:

**`select * from users where username=’admin’;`**

This will only return the rows where the username is NOT equal to admin.

**`select * from users where username != ‘admin’;`**

This will only return the rows where the username is either equal to admin or jon:

**`select * from users where username=’admin’ or username=’jon’;`**

This will only return the rows where the username is equal to admin, and the password is equal to p4ssword:

**`select * from users where username=’admin’ and password=’p4ssword’;`**

Using the like clause allows you to specify data that isn’t an exact match but instead either starts, contains or ends with certain characters by choosing where to place the wildcard character represented by a % sign. This returns any rows with username beginning with the letter a:

**`select * from users where username like ‘a%’;`**

This returns any rows with username ending with the letter n:

**`select * from users where username like ‘%n’;`**

This returns any rows with a username containing the characters mi within them:

**`select * from users where username like ‘%mi%’;`**

**UNION -** combines the results of two or more SELECT statements to retrieve data from either single or multiple tables; the rules to this query are that the UNION statement must retrieve the same number of columns in each SELECT statement, the columns have to be of a similar data type and the column order has to be the same.

Using the following SQL statement, we can gather the results from two tables and put them into one result set:

**`SELECT name, address, city, postcode from customers UNION SELECT company, address, city, postcode from suppliers;`**

**INSERT -** tells the database we wish to insert a new row of data into the table. “into users” tells the database which table we wish to insert the data into, “(username,password)” provides the columns we are providing data for and then “values (’bob’,’password’);” provides the data for the previously specified columns:

**`insert into users (username,password) values (’bob’,’password123’);`**

**UPDATE -** tells the database we wish to update one or more rows of data within a table. You specify the table you wish to update using “update %tablename% SET” and then select the field or fields you wish to update as a comma-separated list such as “username=’root’,password=’pass123’” then finally similar to the SELECT statement, you can specify exactly which rows to update using the where clause such as “where username=’admin’;”.

**`update users SET username=’root’,password=’pass123’ where username=’admin’;`**

**DELETE -** tells the database we wish to delete one or more rows of data. Apart from missing the columns you wish to be returned, the format of this query is very similar to the SELECT. You can specify precisely which data to delete using the where clause and the number of rows to be deleted using the LIMIT clause.

**`delete from users where username=’martin’;`**

Because **NO** WHERE clause was being used in the query, all the data is deleted in the table:

**`delete from users;`**

**What is SQL Injection?**

The point wherein a web application using SQL can turn into SQL Injection is when user-provided data gets included in the SQL query.

SQL Injection is introduced when user input is introduced into the database query. In this instance, the id paramater from the query string is used directly in the SQL query.

I**n-Band SQLi**

**In-Band SQL Injection -** is the easiest type to detect and exploit; In-Band just refers to the same method of communication being used to exploit the vulnerability and also receive the results, for example, discovering an SQL injection vulnerability on a website page and then being able to extract data from the database to the same page.

**Error-based SQL Injection -** is the most useful for easily obtaining information about the database structure as error messages from the database are printed directly to the browser screen. This can often be used to enumerate a whole database.

**Union-based SQL Injection -** utilises the SQL UNION operator alongside a SELECT statement to return additional results to the page. This method is the most common way of extracting large amounts of data via an SQL Injection vulnerability.

**Blind SQLi - Authentication bypass**

**Blind SQLi**

Unlike In-Band SQL Injection, where we can see the results of our attack directly on the screen, blind SQLi is when we get little to no feedback to confirm whether our injected queries were, in fact, successful or not, this is because the error messages have been disabled, but the injection still works regardless. It might surprise you that all we need is that little bit of feedback to successful enumerate a whole database.

**Authentication bypass**

One of the most straightforward Blind SQL Injection techniques is when bypassing authentication methods such as login forms. In this instance, we aren’t that interested in retrieving data from the database; we just want to get past the login.

Login forms that are connected to a database of users are often developed in such a way that the web application isn’t interested in the content of the username and password but more whether the two make a matching pair in the users table. In basic terms, the web application is asking the database “do you have a user with the username bob and the password bob123?”, and the database replies with either yes or no (true/false) and, depending on that answer, dictates whether the web application lets you proceed or not.

Taking the above information into account, it’s unnecessary to enumerate a valid username/password pair. We just need to create a database query that replies with a yes/true.

**`select * from users where username=’’ and password=’’ OR 1=1;`**

Because 1=1 is a true statement and we’ve used an OR operator, this will always cause the query to return as true, which satisfies the web applications logic that the database found a valid username/password combination and that access should be allowed.

**Blind SQLi - Boolean based**

Boolean based SQL Injection refers to the response we receive back from our injection attempts which could be a true/false, yes/no, on/off, 1/0 or any response which can only ever have two outcomes. That outcome confirms to us that our SQL Injection payload was either successful or not. On the first inspection, you may feel like this limited response can’t provide much information. Still, in fact, with just these two responses, it’s possible to enumerate a whole database structure and contents.

**Blind SQLi - Time Based**

A time-based blind SQL Injection is very similar to Boolean based, in that the same requests are sent, but there is no visual indicator of your queries being wrong or right this time. Instead, your indicator of a correct query is based on the time the query takes to complete. This time delay is introduced by using built-in methods such as SLEEP(x) alongside the UNION statement. The SLEEP() method will only ever get executed upon a successful UNION SELECT statement.

So, for example, when trying to establish the number of columns in a table, you would use the following query:

**`admin123’ UNION SELECT SLEEP(5);--`**

If there was no pause in the response time, we know that the query was unsuccessful, so like on previous tasks, we add another column:

**`admin123’ UNION SELECT SLEEP(5),2;--`**

This payload should have produced a 5-second time delay, which confirms the successful execution of the UNION statement and that there are two columns.

You can now repeat the enumeration process from Boolean based SQL Injection, adding the SLEEP() method into the UNION SELECT statement.

If you’re struggling to find the table name the below query should help you on your way:

**`referrer=admin123’ UNION SELECT SLEEP(5), 2 where database() like ‘u%’;--`**

**Out-of-Band SQLi**

Isn’t as common as it either depends on specific features being enabled on the database server or the web application’s business logic, which makes some kind of external network call based on the results from an SQL query.

An Out-of-Band attack is classified by having two different communication channels, one to launch the attack and the other to gather the results. For example, the attack channel could be a web request, and the data gathering channel could be monitoring HTTP/DNS requests made to a service you control.

1.  An attacker makes a request to a website vulnerable to SQL Injection with an injection payload.
2.  The website makes an SQL query to the database which also passes the hacker’s payload.
3.  The payload contains a request which forces an HTTP request back to the hacker’s machine containing data from the database.

**Remediation**

As impactful as SQL Injection vulnerabilities are, developers do have a way to protect their web applications from them by following the below advice:

**Prepared Statements (with Parameterized Queries):** in a prepared query, the first thing a developer writes is the SQL query and then any user inputs are added as a parameter afterwards. Writing prepared statements ensures that the SQL code structure doesn’t change and the database can distinguish between the query and the data. As a benefit, it also makes your code look a lot cleaner and easier to read.

**Input Validation:** can go a long way to protecting what gets put into an SQL query. Employing an allow list can restrict input to only certain strings, or a string replacement method in the programming language can filter the characters you wish to allow or disallow.

Escaping user input: allowing user input containing characters such as ‘ “ $ \ can cause SQL Queries to break or, even worse, as we’ve learnt, open them up for injection attacks. Escaping user input is the method of prepending a backslash (\) to these characters, which then causes them to be parsed just as a regular string and not a special character.