Subdomain enumeration is the process of finding valid subdomains for a domain. We do this to expand our attack surface to try and discover more potential points of vulnerability.

**SSL/TLS certificates -** when a SSL/TLS (Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security) certificate is created for a domain by a CA (Certificate Authority), CA’s take part in what’s called “Certificate Transparency (CT) logs.

These are publicly accessible logs of every SSL/TLS certificate created for a domain name. The purpose of Certificate Transparency logs is to stop malicious and accidentally made certificates from being used. We can use this to our advantage to discover subdomains belonging to a domain, sites like [](https://crt.sh)[https://crt.sh](https://crt.sh) offer a searchable database of certificates that shows current and historical results.

**Bruteforce DNS (Domain Name System) -** is the method of trying thousands or even millions of different possible subdomains from a pre-defined list of commonly used subdomains. Because this method requires many requests, we automate it with tools to make the process quicker.

**Virtual hosts -** some subdomains aren’t always hosted in publically accessible DNS results, such as development versions of a web application or administration portals. Instead, the DNS record could be kept on a private DNS server or recorded on the developer’s machines in their /etc/hosts file which maps domain names to IP addresses.

Because web servers can host multiple websites from one server when a website is requested from a client, the server knows which website the client wants from the HOST header. We can utilise this host header by making changes to it and monitoring the response to see if we’ve discovered a new website.

Like with DNS Bruteforce, we can automate this process by using a wordlist of commonly used subdomains.