**Introduction (What is command injection?)**

Command injection is the abuse of an application’s behaviour to execute commands on the operating system, using the same privileges that the application on a device is running with. For example, achieving command injection on a web server running as a user named Joe, will execute commands under this Joe user - and therefore obtain any permissions that Joe has.

A command injection vulnerability is also known as a “Remote Code Execution” (RCE) because an attacker can trick the application into executing a series of payloads that they provide, without direct access to the machine itself (i.e. an interactive shell). The webserver will process this code and execute it under the privileges and access controls of the user who is running that application.

Command injection is also often known as “Remote Code Execution” (RCE) because of the ability to remotely execute code within an application. These vulnerabilities are often the most lucrative to an attacker because it means that the attacker can directly interact with the vulnerable system. For example, an attacker may read system or user files, data, and things of that nature.

For example, being able to abuse an application to perform the command whoami to list what user account the application is running will be an example of command injection.

**Discovering Command Injection**

This vulnerability exists because applications often use functions in programming languages such as Python and NodeJS to pass data to and to make system calls on the machine’s operating system. For example, taking input from a field and searching for an entry into a file.

An attacker could abuse this application by injecting their own commands for the application to execute. Rather than using ‘grep’ to search for an entry, they could ask the application to read data from a more sensitive file.

Abusing applications in this way can be possible no matter the programming language the application uses. As long as the application processes and executes it, it can result in command injection.

**Exploiting Command Injection**

Command Injection can be detected in mostly one of two ways:

1.  **Blind command injection -** this type of injection is where there is no direct output from the application when testing payloads. You will have to investigate the behaviours of the application to determine whether or not your payload was successful.
2.  **Verbose command injection -** this type of injection is where there is direct feedback from the application once you have tested a payload. For example, running the whoami command to see what user the application is running under. The web application will output the username on the page directly.

Detecting blind command injection

Blind command injection is when command injection occurs; however, there is no output visible, so it is not immediately noticeable. For example, a command is executed, but the web application outputs no message.

For this type of command injection, we will need to use payloads that will cause some time delay. For example, the ping and sleep commands are significant payloads to test with. Using ping as an example, the application will hang for x seconds in relation to how many pings you have specified.

Another method of detecting blind command injection is by forcing some output. This can be done by using redirection operators such as >. For example, we can tell the web application to execute commands such as whoami and redirect that to a file. We can then use a command such as cat to read this newly created file’s contents.

Testing command injection this way is often complicated and requires quite a bit of experimentation.

The curl command is a great way to test for command injection. This is because you are able to use curl to deliver data to and from an application in your payload.

Detecting Verbose command injection

Detecting command injection this way is arguably the easiest method of the two. Verbose command injection is when the application gives you feedback or output as to what is happening or being executed.

For example, the output of commands such as ping or whoami is directly displayed on the web application.

**Remediating Command Injection**

Command injection can be prevented in a variety of ways. Everything from minimal use of potentially dangerous functions or libraries in a programming language to filtering input without relying on a user’s input.

-   Vulnerable functions
-   input sanitisation