#### Understanding SMB
**What is SMB?**
SMB (Server Message Block protocol), is a client-server communication protocol used for sharing access to files, printers, serial ports and other resources on a network.
The SMB protocol is known as a response-request protocol, meaning that it transmits multiple messages between the client and server to establish a connection. Clients connect to servers using TCP/IP, NetBEUI or IPX/SPX.

**How does SMB work?**
Once they have established a connection, clients can then send commands to the server that allow them to access shares, open files, read and write files, and generally do all the sort of things that you want to do with a file system. However, in the case of SMB, these things are done over the network.

#### Enumerating SMB
**Enumeration**
IS the process of gathering information on a target in order to find potential attack vectors and aid in exploitation.
This process is essential for an attack to be successful, as wasting time with exploits that either don't work or can crash the system can be a waste of energy.
Enumeration can be used to gather usernames, passwords, network information, hostnames, application data, services, or any other information that may be valuable to an attacker.

**SMB**
Typically, there are SMB share drives on a server that can be connected to and used to view or transfer files. SMB can often be a great starting point for an attacker looking to discover sensitive information.

**Port Scanning**
The first step of enumeration is to conduct a port scan, to find out as much information as you can about the services, applications, structure and operating system of the target machine.

**Enum4Linux**
Is a tool used to enumerate SMB shares on both Windows and Linux. It is basically a wrapper around the tools in the Samba 