**Introduction**
Active reconnaissance requires you to make some kind of contact with your target. This contact can be a phone call or a visit to the target company under some pretence to gather more information, usually as part of social engineering.
Alternatively, it can be a direct connection to the target system, whether visiting their website or checking if their firewall has an SSH port open.
IT is essential to remember not to engage in active reconnaissance work before getting signed legal authorization from the client.

Active reconnaissance begins with direct connections made to the target machine. Any such connection might leave information in the logs showing the client IP address, time of the connection, and duration of the connection, among other things. However, not all connections are suspicious. It is possible to let your active reconnaissance appear as regular client activity. You can use such techniques to your advantage when working as part of the Red Team and don't want to alarm the Blue Team.

**Web Browser**
There are several ways where you can use a web browser to gather information about a target.
On the transport level, the browser connects to:
- TCP port 80 by default when the website is accessed over HTTP
- TCP port 443 by default when the website is accessed over HTTPS

While browsing a web page, you can open the Developer Tools. 
Developer Tools lets you inspect many things that your browser has received and exchanged with the remote server. You can view and even modify the JS files, inspect the cookies set on your system and discover the folder structure of the site content.

**Ping**
