##### Basic skills required (MUST HAVE):
- **Knowledge of networks -** is something you cannot do without in cybersecurity. Make sure that you have the knowledge of networks, routing, switching, VLAN concepts, subnetting, etc. You may refer to the CCNA routing and switching study material for getting the basics. Once you are done with networks, go for network security concepts - algorithms, security configurations of devices, encryption, etc. This will give you an edge over other cybersecurity professionals in the market.
- **Basic computer knowledge -** a cybersecurity professional should know how the computer works, basics of memory management, garbage collection, folder sharing concepts, permissions, different types of accesses in the system, ports and system firewalls, IP assignment and various interfaces, registry understanding to some extent can be a big plus. This knowledge can help with memory forensics, system hardening, access management, penetration testing, etc. This will also help you in performing the tasks easily by finding alternative ways to accomplish it.
- **Coding knowledge -** one thing missing in the cybersecurity domain is enough number of professionals with knowledge of coding. Knowledge of Assembly language is required for performing reverse engineering and malware analysis. Tasks can be tedious sometimes and you need to automate tasks so that you have time for other tasks. A lot of tools are open-source and can be customized using scripting languages. This will enhance the power of the tool if you know how to do it. You can create burp suite extensions, Metasploit modules using python, exploitation scripts, etc. Understand how their native scripts work rather than just executing it like a script kiddie. Go for two main languages - Python and C. You can do much damage with them. The knowledge of scripting languages is a big plus and can sometimes be a tiebreaker when it comes to selection.
- **Hands-on experience/projects -** this will help you to decide your area of interest, strengths, and weaknesses. Work and contribute to various communities like OWASP, which can then be added to the resume.
	1. ***Security device deployment and Network security -*** if you have interest in firewalls, proxies, and other security devices and how they are fitted in the network, this is your piece. After deployment, the next steps are optimization, configuration management, auditing and governance. If you know the ground level basics, the other parts become much more interesting and efficient.
	2. ***Pentesting -*** if you have the attitude to break into networks and applications, you should hunt for pentesting projects. It takes a lot of time to become an expert at it. You can set up a lab in your personal laptop using VirtualBox for practicing pentesting. You can find vulnerable machines online to download, learn and test your skills on (List of vulnerable machines to practice: DVWA, Bee Wapp, Metasploitable).
	3. ***Malware Analysis -*** this is something very few people are into, for a couple of reasons: lack of skills to understand the code; it is a time taking process to do the analysis manually; malware is becoming advanced day by day. So if you have related experience, or have done some research; the chances of you getting a boost in your career is high. With all the technology in place, this is something which will still require manual intervention and human interpretation. It is not recommended to start malware analysis on your own, as the chances of you getting infected or spreading the infection unknowingly are relatively high. You can refer to various resources online which will help you understand the basics of malware analysis. Try reading various analysis reports released by companies to have a view of how it is done, and what to check and report. Even the knowledge of this subdomain is worth gold.

##### How to get qualified to become a Cybersecurity professional
1. **Certifications -** one of the problems faced by professionals in the initial years of cybersecurity career is that they are not able to gain an overall knowledge of cybersecurity as a domain. Work will give you experience but that will not be able to cover all the aspects of the domain. To get an overall knowledge, go for certifications as it will enhance your knowledge base, and can also be a deciding factor in your hiring. There are multiple certifications, each having its own pros and cons.
2. **Know security map -** security is an ocean in itself; you can start from anywhere and once you have your foot in the door, explore and navigate the domain. There are various subdomains which you can choose to master - pentesting, malware analysis, security auditing, security operations center (soc), incident handling, reverse engineering, etc. You are not expected to master all of it but some knowledge of the domains will always be helpful to connect the dots afterward. This is a time taking process, and I would suggest you do not hurry. Choosing a subdomain and working towards it is complex, take time to understand and work your way towards it.
3. **Don't be choosy -** For starters, try to be a "Yes man" when it comes to working. Gain experience in whatever comes your way. Being very choosy in the first place will not pay off very well later. Try to gain enough experience. Freshers are often put into security operations, which might become monotonous after some time but it takes a lot of time to master that as well. 
4. **Keep learning -** cybersecurity is like a race and to be in that race you need to keep up the momentum. Ensure that you read enough and be updated on what is happening in the industry.